Gaza rights back we're going to head to
rala now where Imran Khan joins us
uh pardon me Imran is in occupied East
Jerusalem we're seeing pictures of
protests in rala Imran can you talk us
through what's happening
there well there are a huge number of
people out on the streets this is by far
the biggest protest that uh we've seen
in rala since October the 7th when all
of this began now since October the 7th
people have been out on the streets of
rala showing their support for the Gaza
Strip those protests were small but they
were frequent they were happening three
or four times a day but nowhere near
this kind of number clearly something
has sparked them to come out on the
streets whether it's the hospital
bombing the two incidents actually took
place around the same time uh certainly
that would have spurred the protesters
to keep on the streets they've now moved
from uh the main Square in rala and
they're now uh walking around the
streets of rala that's something that we
do see them do a lot this is not about
being in one place this is about showing
the entire occupied West Bank that uh
there is support there for uh the people
of Gaza now whilst all of this was
happening Emily we heard that President
Mahmud Abbas is refusing to meet with
Joe Biden Joe Biden US president is
actually in uh Israel um on Wednesday
he's going to go to Jordan he in Jordan
he'll be meeting with the Egyptian
leader CCE and with the King Abdullah of
Jordan in that meeting was supposed to
be president mahud abas of the
Palestinian Authority he's now not in
that meeting we're hearing that he's now
actually on his way back from ramala why
is that happening well we don't know
there's been no official confirmation of
this but clearly mudas is looking at the
streets of Rola looking at the streets
of the occupied West Bank where all
these demonstrations are taking place
he's reading the mood of Palestinian
people on the streets and he's certainly
uh looking at the level of support for
the people of Gaza so any wrong step
from him is going to cost him very
dearly politically he's also been
calling for a ceasefire for a very long
time almost since uh this began on
October 7th the US the UK Japan voted
against and the French rather voted
against a Russian
uh backed a security Council resolution
for a ceasefire in the humanitarian
Corridor that might be the driving force
he may well just be so frustrated with
the Americans that he simply feels he's
got nothing to talk to them about
because his big push is for a ceasefire
and if that's not happening then why is
he in that room with President Joe Biden
okay we have to leave it there Imran
Khan in occupied East Jerusalem let's
head to rala now where Charles Stratford
is standing by for us in the occupied
West Bank Charles we're seeing some
tense scenes in rala at the moment talk
us through what's
happening yeah sorry it's it's even
difficult for us to breathe here from
the office as these clouds of tear gas
rise but yeah I'm seeing basically
Street battles between protesters and
Palestinian Security Forces they're
throwing rocks sound
bombs the police has throwing sound
bombs I just saw an
ambulance was unsure as to whether
anybody has been injured but scenes of
utter chaos
here you're probably hearing that the
protest started in the Central Square a
place called Manara and they were trying
to head towards one of the main
Palestinian Authority administrative
buildings and then they were pushed back
by Security Forces as we heard Imran say
a lot of the focus of this protest
excuse me the tigas is still
coming up through the window here is
anger with Muhammed abas the Palestinian
president they want him back they say
that he is completely ineffectual many
of the these protesters in fact there
were chance for him to step
aside this is basically an indication
just how tenuous the Palestinian
president's position
is here in in the West Bank the people
here have obviously been these protests
are getting larger and more frequent as
the war in Gaza goes on but this is
longstanding problems grievances that
they have with the Palestinian president
I'm seeing groups of men running back
now um as I say some still throwing
throwing
rocks this is not a Hamas demonstration
by any stretch this is just a a general
group of people who have political
affiliations or support various
different political groups that are just
basically sick and tired another sound
bomb there that are sick and tired of
what they say is the complete
ineffectuality of the Palestinian leader
and of course this has happened on the
same night as we've seen that horrific
attack on Gaza on that hospital with
what we understand are hundreds of
people killed but yeah this is by far
the largest protest that we've seen in
rala since the beginning of the war on
Gaza we understand there were similar
protests in in a number of other towns
on the in the occupied West Bank notably
Janine we heard also we can't confirm it
yet that that protest was broken up by
Palestinian Security Forces too so yeah
as I say scenes of utter chaos here um
and seemingly the police struggling to
control the situation Charles you
mentioned that you had been affected by
te gas are you okay to keep
going yeah we can keep going now it's
cleared a little bit but as I say
there's there's a lot more being thrown
please continue yes so when I saw your
last cross to our previous present
Anastasia it looked like things had been
relatively peaceful what's what's
changed has there been something that's
triggered it to to turn
violent well it was a peaceful protest
um uh I suppose it took about an hour or
so for people to gather um but as I say
as they tried to March up towards the
makata which is the main Palestinian
Authority building here in rala that's
when they were blocked by Palestinian
security forces the tear gas and the
sound bombs started to be fired um they
are now Gathering again seemingly in the
Square um there's no sign of any
Security Forces there at the moment but
we I I think that they that they've
pushed back up the roads but yeah this
could get very ugly indeed and as I say
it is a graphic
example of of the level of anger that is
now being focused upon the Palestinian
leader they want him back they want him
to cut this visit in Jordan short they
do not want him Vis seeing Biden because
they have completely given up with any
kind of international diplomatic effort
to stop the violence being exacted upon
the people of Gaza and the Palestinians
here in the occupied West Bank Charles
so yeah you might not have been aware
but or or can see from your point of
view they've actually in the time that
we've been speaking destroyed a sign
that said rala what do you think what
can we interpret from
that very difficult to say I mean I I I
can tell you that as you can imagine all
the shops have closed in a situation
like this I mean we see protests across
the occupied West Bank regularly large
scale like this local businesses and so
on they close because things do get
violence and as I say there is um there
is Rock throwing there there is um there
are running Street battles at the moment
with the security services in terms of
what's happened to a particular sign I I
I couldn't tell you but uh yeah it's
going to be very interesting and one can
only think a great challenge for the
security forces to to try and get back
some sort of order because there's no
sign at this stage at least that um that
the crowds are being
dispersed from what I can see a lot of
them have actually pushed up into into
the roads around the Central Square here
can you describe that area for people
that aren't familiar with it can you
describe the Central Square and how or
if the Israeli Security Forces will be
able to get
control let's just be clear here in our
understand this is not the Israeli sec
security forces that are involved in
this this is the Palestinian author
Palestinian Security Forces so you know
an know the layer of the land here very
well yeah a very important point this is
not Israeli Security Forces at this
stage this is the Palestinian Authority
trying to deal with this crisis and
that's why it's so and that's why it's
so important that's why it's so Salient
because as I say it shows the level of
anger now being directed towards the
Palestinian leader who we know over the
last week or so has met with a number of
different leaders spoken to a number of
others on the telephone around the world
so yeah this this Manara as it's called
is the Central Square in raal rala it's
symbolic of a place where many
protests occur have occurred over the
decades so um it's normally where people
gather and yeah we've seen it here again
this evening but as I say this is in
relation to since the beginning of the
war on Gaza the size and SC scale and
level of violence we're witnessing here
in rala is unprecedented this hasn't
happened on this scale uh since the
beginning of the war can you just
clarify again what the Palestinians in
in rala want what is it that they want
from the Palestinian Authority from
president
abas well bear in mind that you know 700
arrests approximately 700
that sounds like
gunfire that does sound like gunfire um
and you've heard you probably hear the
chanting as well yeah things things are
deteriorating dramatically here at the
moment trying to get a steer on what we
can see I can see a fire burning I can
see people on roofs that is that that is
live gunfire okay do you need to take
cover I'm going to get down because
that's live gunfire yes I do there'll be
firing in the air one would think so
probably best that we uh okay we'll
cross back to you when it's safe to do
so thank you very much Charles Stratford
in rala Let's cross to Stephanie DEA who
is in ashod in southern Israel Steph
what are you hearing about these most
recent attacks in Gaza any further
details from the Israeli
military initially the Israeli
spokesperson was asked in a press
conference and he said he didn't have
any information there were multiple
strikes going on and they would be
investigating we've now uh have a little
bit more information that it it seems
that preliminary investigations the
Israelis are pointing to a potentially
misfired or failed Hamas rocket launch
um but I mean I have to say they have
said this before when they have struck
Targets in Gaza things like schools in
you know in situations like this at the
moment we're going have to wait and see
they say that we're expecting an
official statement at some point to come
of course there's a lot of pressure now
on the the Israelis having come from
International from Canada from Q from
Jordan from Egypt from Turkey um because
the images are so shocking at least 500
people at the moment We Believe killed
in that strike on the hospital a
hospital that was supposed to have been
safe uh you're seeing the potential uh
of this to ignite not just what you're
seeing happening in the West Bank but
regionally um you have hasbalah who's
always warned um warned the is radies if
they go into Gaza if they go go harsh on
Gaza that they will retaliate well the
images that we've seen today are
extraordinary you've seen how it's
ignited the West Bank Raa usually pretty
pacifist when it comes to any reaction
when it comes to Gaza Wars there are
smaller protests nothing like we're
seeing now and interestingly as you
heard Charles saying there the fact that
the Palestinian Authority CR clamping
down on those protests when they're
actually revolting against what happened
in Gaza there's also a lot of inter
fighting when it comes to the
Palestinian factions they cannot be
unified together against Israel as one
um which is why also it is so complex
when you look at the ground so you have
this strike uh horrifying uh strike in
Gaza killing at least 500 people and
you're now seeing just how the potential
of that has to ignite beyond the borders
of Gaza if you
will just want to remind our audience
while we're speaking to you that we're
what we're seeing in rala to the left of
their screen it's the latest pictures of
residents in rala coming out against
Security Forces they're angry about
President Mahmud abas and
his his he's he's no longer going to be
meeting with US President Joe Biden so
there's it's a it's certainly a fluid
situation here tonight uh and it's hard
to stay across all the the developments
but Stephanie if I may just to recap
what you've said is that there's there's
been an attack on a hospital in Gaza
where 500 people have been killed
there's also been an attack at a un
school where people were Sheltering we
now are hearing tonight that Israel's
National Security Council said they will
bring all the captives back alive do we
know what Avenues Israel might be
exploring in relation to
that yeah let me just correct you there
they haven't struck a un School in the
past there have been times so they've
struck schools during conflicts and
they've said that also they would blame
it on misfiring or Hamas U you know
launching a rocket at their own or
having ammunition underneath these kinds
of areas so this time no no un school
but yes a hospital a hospital in an area
that was supposed to be deemed to be
safe in an area where people had been
told to evacuate too when you look at
what's happening in rala people
initially came out to protest uh the
horrific images coming out of Gaza um
what exactly ensued on the ground in
terms of confrontations with the
Palestinian Security Forces I can't tell
you but you're now seeing the
Palestinian Authority Security Forces
clamping down on Palestinians in theala
it is no secret that there is a lot of
disillusionment with the Palestinian
Authority there haven't been elections
for years uh president Mahmud Abbas is
not popular they do clamp down on any
descent also in ramala I covered the
death the killing of a prominent um
critic against the Palestinian Authority
n Berard um and when protesters came out
on the streets there chanting for the
downfall of the regime the Palestinian
Authority um pushed their thugs onto the
streets they beat people up they closed
our satellite truck we had to return to
the office in theala to be able to keep
broadcasting from so this just shows you
the complexities of the Palestinian
story and the complexities of what the
Palestinian people uh are having to
endure I remember one man telling me at
the funeral of nzar banat we are under a
double OCC occupation um so it is so
complex when it comes to this story but
I think just bringing it back now to
what happened uh in Gaza this is also
going to it's really already changed the
international condemnation which
initially was very much sympathetic with
Israel following the attack by Hamas
which killed almost
1,400 just over Israelis um but this
specific um targeting of this Hospital
killing so many people is changing the
of condemnation on Israel and we have
the US President Joe Biden coming here
tomorrow I think it's going to be very
very interesting as to how the US
president is going to react because he
simply cannot ignore the pictures that
have been coming out of Gaza okay thank
you very much for that update Stephanie
Decker for us in southern Israel before
we head to Washington DC we're just
going to show some live pictures now
coming out of Tunis in Tunisia in
response to this evening's strikes on on
a Gaza Hospital in which we know more
than 500 people have been killed and
there were also reports that a school
where people were Sheltering were also
targeted so these are live pictures
coming out of Tunis let's head to
Washington DC now where Mike Hanner is
standing by for us Mike we know that US
President Joe Biden was due to take off
in less than an hour what impact were
these most recent attacks at a hospital
and a School shelter in Gaza have on
Biden's expected visit to Israel on
Wednesday tomorrow